Raspberry Pi High Quality Camera 

How to remove the IR Filter 

Why would you remove the IR Filter? 
Answer: 
This is used to reduce the camera’s sensitivity to infrared light. 
This ensures that outdoor photos look more natural. 
However, some nature photography can be enhanced with the removal of this filter; the colours of sky, plants, and water can be affected by its removal. 
The camera can also be used without the filter for night vision in a location that is illuminated with infrared light.

Step 1: Make sure that you want to remove the IR Filter, once removed you cannot put it back in (and if you remove it incorrectly, it can break)
Step 2: Make sure that you are in a clean and dust-free environment 
Step 3: Remove the white strip (Take an image of the way it is supposed to go back in) 
Step 4: Unscrew the two 1.5 mm hex lock keys on the underside of the main circuit board (Do not lose the washers)
Step 5: There will be some sticky material holding the housing and PCB (will need force to remove, not too much though)
Step 6: Lift up the board and place it down on a very clean surface. Make sure the sensor does not touch the surface.
Step 7: Optional, You may try some ways to weaken the adhesive, such as a little isopropyl alcohol and/or heat (~20-30 C). (we did not)
Step 8: Turn the lens mount around so that it is "looking" upwards and place it on a table.
Step 9: Now you just take out the filter (can use your nails, pencil, sharp object) be sure not to break it
Step 10: Filter is now removed
Step 11: Replace the main housing over the circuit board. Be sure to realign the housing with the gasket, which remains on the circuit board.
Step 12: The nylon washer prevents damage to the circuit board; apply this washer first. 
Step 13: Next, fit the steel washer, which prevents damage to the nylon washer.
Step 14: Screw down the two hex lock keys. As long as the washers have been fitted in the correct order, they do not need to be screwed very tightly.
Step 15: Now put the white strip in again and you have completed the removal of the IR Filter
